# Preparing a Release
---

Since this is a new project with few users, we're starting
simple with a tag-based release process that leverages
semantic versioning to control and version releases.

The intention is for maintainers of this repository to
prepare for a release using these steps. If it becomes
burdensome, it can be further automated.

---

### Step 1: Evaluate changes since the prior release

Review a diff between the prior release tag and the current
commit. The purpose of this review is to observe if there
would be any breaking changes introduced between releases if a
release was made. Based on your findings, select a new version
number in accordance with standard [semver](https://semver.org/)
practices.

### Step 2 (optional): Perform a test query

If the scope of the changes is large, build and install
the driver and run some local tests to ensure it works
as designed. This local testing may need to include both
the 32 and 64 bit versions of the driver. Whether or not
testing is required (or testing of different bitnesses)
is left to the discretion of the maintainer performing the
release.

### Step 3: Push a tag to trigger the release

Select the semantic version of your release, then push a tag of
the form `vX.Y.Z`, based on the version number you selected
in step 1. Observe the github action workflow for the release
process to ensure it completes successfully.

### Step 4: Review the Release Changelog

Observe that a draft (non-public) release has appeared at
the top of the repositories release list. This release
is visible only to maintainers of the repository. Modify the
autogenerated changelog to make it more readable or provide
a summary of changes if required. This is also an opportunity
to inspect or test the installers built by the github workflow
for the release process (if desired).

### Step 5: Complete the Release

Once you have reviewed the draft (non-public) release and
found it to be ready for the user community, mark the release
as ready (public). This completes the release process.
